----------------------------------------------------------
R A T I O N A L E  A N D  E X P L A N A T I O N
----------------------------------------------------------

Over the last year Maven has been in heavy development, is nearly
production quality and is rapidly being adopted as the next generation
build tool for Java-based projects. Maven initially started as an
attempt to get a grasp on the ever increasing number of problems
encountered in trying to build, maintain and document the Jakarta
Turbine projects.

Ironically, the Turbine projects are still the most difficult to build
with Maven but fortunately this is not the case for countless other
projects that have adopted Maven which is evident by the sheer number
of Java projects cropping up everywhere with the Maven/Tigris look and
feel.  The db.apache.org project finally has a site which is generated
by Maven and we would challenge anyone at Apache to find an easier
more elegant solution for deploy maintaining and deploying a top-level
Apache project.

On the whole most projects that are now using Maven are finding the
general overall burden of building, maintaining and deploy greatly
lifted. We would now like to bring Maven to a wider audience and
continue trying to unify and codify the Java development process which
would be the primary goal of this project.

What follows is a list of people who would make up the initial PMC and
the projects that would initially seed maven.apache.org if this 
proposal is accepted.

----------------------------------------------------------
P M C  M E M B E R S
----------------------------------------------------------

The following list of people would make up the PMC. All those listed
have participated in the development of Maven heavily to this point in
time and would like to commit to initializing maven.apache.org.

Dion Gillard
Pete Kazmier
Bob McWhirter
James Strachan
Jason van Zyl

----------------------------------------------------------
S E E D  P R O J E C T S
----------------------------------------------------------

To start, we plan to place the following projects into
maven.apache.org:

Maven: 
The core Maven application that can be found at
http://maven.apache.org/

Plugins:
A project for all the Plugins that have formed around Maven. There are
currently 50+ Plugins for Maven in the Apache repository and another
30+ living in different places around the world. We would like to
provide a place for Plugin developers to keep their work and have it
be separate from the Maven core.

Continuum:
Continuous Integration tool for Java-based projects that use Maven as
their primary build tool. This package will be released when Maven 1.0
is released.

SCM:
A Source Control Management abstraction that is slated to be used with
Continuum but will serve as a general SCM tool for integration into
any Java project.

Artifact Downloading Mechanism:
This project has yet to be named but it is the engine inside Maven
that provides the artifact comparison and downloading capabilities of
Maven. It has been requested that this functionality be separated from
the core of Maven so that it can be utilized by other project like
Ant.

----------------------------------------------------------

If the board deems the project is not meant to be a top-level Apache
project then we would humbly ask the Board to release Maven from
Apache and allow us to use the "Maven" name and move the entire
project to maven.org. We fully understand any decision that the Board
makes but ask that we be allowed to continue on the path we feel is
best for Maven. We really feel that Maven is ready to leave the fold
of Turbine where it started and become a project in its own right. We
would prefer to be at Apache, but would take the project out of the
Apache realm if the Board would grant us permission to do so.

-- 
jvz.

Jason van Zyl
jvanzyl@apache.org

http://tambora.zenplex.org
